

Once upon a time in a great forest dwelt a poor wood-cutter with his two children. The boy was called Hansel and the girl Gretel. The family did not have a lot of money, and everyday the father would travel deep into the heart of the woods in search of the best wood that would fetch the most money. 

One morning as the wood-cutter prepared to leave Hansel and Gretel asked to go with him. They did not like being left alone in the cottage and wished to help their father. He told them no, that is was far too dangerous and he would be back by nightfall. After he left they decided to follow him anyways and bring him the last of their bread to eat for his meal. 

The children entered deeper into the forest than they had ever been before. Gretel worried that they might not be able to find their way back, so Hansel crumbled up a bit of the bread in his pocket and threw it onto the path behind them. They walked until it was evening and the sun began to set. 

Then Gretel complained of being hungry and said to Hansel, “We should share some of the bread we brought for father, since we have not eaten all day and are unlikely to find him.” But when Hansel checked his pockets for the last of the bread, he found nothing but crumbs. “I must have thrown it all on the path to mark our way back home,” he said. “But do not worry, Gretel. Just wait until the moon rises, and then we shall see the crumbs of bread which I have strewn about, they will show us our way home again.” 

They rested against a large tree until the moon rose, but when they looked back they way they came they found no crumbs, for the many thousands of birds which fly about in the woods and fields had picked them all up. Hansel said to Gretel: “We shall soon find the way,” but they did not find it. They walked the whole night and all the next day too from morning till evening, but they did not get out of the forest.

Just as the children thought they must die of hunger and weariness, they came upon a clearing. There they saw a little house, and when they approached it they saw that it was built of bread and covered with cakes, but that the windows were of clear sugar. Hansel reached up above, and broke off a little of the roof to try how it tasted, and Gretel leant against the window and nibbled at the panes. 

Suddenly the door opened, and a woman as old as the hills, who supported herself on crutches, came creeping out. Hansel and Gretel were so terribly frightened that they let fall what they had in their hands. The old woman, however, nodded her head, and said: 'Oh, you dear children, who has brought you here? do come in, and stay with me. No harm shall happen to you.' She took them both by the hand, and led them into her little house. Then good food was set before them, milk and pancakes, with sugar, apples, and nuts. Afterwards two pretty little beds were covered with clean white linen, and Hansel and Gretel lay down in them, and thought they were in heaven.

The old woman had only pretended to be so kind; she was in reality a wicked witch, who lay in wait for children, and had only built the little house of bread in order to entice them there. When a child fell into her power, she killed it, cooked and ate it, and that was a feast day with her. Witches have red eyes, and cannot see far, but they have a keen scent like the beasts, and are aware when human beings draw near. 

Early in the morning before the children were awake, she was already up, and when she saw both of them sleeping and looking so pretty, with their plump and rosy cheeks she muttered to herself: 'That will be a dainty mouthful!' Then she seized Hansel with her shriveled hand, carried him into a little stable, and locked him in behind a grated door. Scream as he might, it would not help him. 

Then she went to Gretel, shook her till she awoke, and cried: 'Get up, lazy thing, fetch some water, and cook something good for your brother, he is in the stable outside, and is to be made fat. When he is fat, I will eat him.' Gretel began to weep bitterly, but it was all in vain, for she was forced to do what the wicked witch commanded. Soon Gretel was made to go out and hang up the cauldron with the water, and light the fire. 

'We will bake first,' said the old woman, 'I have already heated the oven, and kneaded the dough.' She pushed poor Gretel out to the oven, from which flames of fire were already darting. 'Creep in,' said the witch, 'and see if it is properly heated, so that we can put the bread in.' And once Gretel was inside, she intended to shut the oven and let her bake in it, and then she would eat her, too. But Gretel saw what she had in mind, and said: 'I do not know how I am to do it; how do I get in?' 

'Silly goose,' said the old woman. 'The door is big enough; just look, I can get in myself!' and she crept up and thrust her head into the oven. Then Gretel gave her a push that drove her far into it, and shut the iron door, and fastened the bolt. Oh! then she began to howl quite horribly, but Gretel ran away and the godless witch was miserably burnt to death.

Gretel, however, ran like lightning to Hansel, opened his little stable, and cried: 'Hansel, we are saved! The old witch is dead!' Then Hansel sprang like a bird from its cage when the door is opened and as they had no longer any need to fear her, they went into the witch's house. In every corner there stood chests full of pearls and jewels. Hansel thrust into his pockets whatever could be got in and Gretel filled her pinafore full. 'But now we must be off,' said Hansel, 'that we may get out of the witch's forest.'

When they had walked for a short time, the forest seemed to be more and more familiar
to them, and at length they saw from afar their father's house. Then they began to run, rushed into the parlour, and threw themselves round their father's neck. The man had not known one happy hour since he had come home and realized his children had followed him into the forest. Gretel emptied her pinafore until pearls and precious stones ran about the room, and Hansel threw one handful after another out of his pocket to add to them. Then all anxiety was at an end, and they lived together in perfect happiness.